docs: add guidance on security implications for forks (#232)
github-community-projects/private-mirrors: docs/using-the-app.md

1. Create a pull request against the private mirror repo

2. Review and merge the PR - at this step, if issues come up that require the deletion of code in the PR, you should "squash history" in the PR so the merge commit does not contain traces of the unwanted code. Alternatively, you should rewrite any commits that include sensitive data with the sensitive data removed. Review the [security implications for contributions synced to public forks](#security-implications-for-contributions-synced-to-public-forks) for more information.

3. Once it's merged, the app will automatically sync the private mirror to your public fork, updating a branch whose name matches the name of the private mirror (`silverteam-website`, in this example).

4. You can then use that branch of the public fork as the base to open a PR to the upstream repository.

## Security implications for contributions synced to public forks

> Private Mirrors App is designed to help you manage your open source contributions in a way that addresses stakeholder concerns and conforms to your organization's security and compliance requirements. Contributions using PMA are first made to a private mirror, which is detached from the repository and forks (i.e. the [repository network](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/viewing-activity-and-data-for-your-repository/understanding-connections-between-repositories)) on GitHub. This allows sensitive data or credentials to be caught in a private mirror before any commits are synced back to a public fork. Any sensitive data or credentials should be removed from history before syncing the contribution back to a public fork.

Reviewer: You may also consider linking through to this GH wiki page (https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/removing-sensitive-data-from-a-repository) that describes how to remove the sensitive data from git history in this line:
> Any sensitive data or credentials should be removed from history before syncing the contribution back to a public fork.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the poinnter @coffeesippa but in fact, the procedure described on that page is not needed for Private Mirrors - one of the benefits of using the app is that commits on the mirror that get `squashed` down prior to merging will not be accessible on the public fork.

Author: Does Private Mirrors always squash down or is that configurable? From somewhere else in the docs I thought that was an option but not how PMA always worked.

Reviewer 2: You're right it's not automatic - but the point is the final state of the commits that are pushed up to the public fork is all you'll see. (Unlike working strictly on a public fork where the `filter-repo` workflow is necessary to make sure that commits are not still reachable)

Author: Added some more explicit instructions for squashing or rewriting history in https://github.com/github-community-projects/private-mirrors/pull/232/commits/c0aa4819ae23a8e974862e7e015b48ded9b74666, let me know what y'all think

1. Create a pull request against the private mirror repo

2. Review and merge the PR – at this step, if issues come up that require the deletion of code in the PR, you should either

   1. [Squash and merge the pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/incorporating-changes-from-a-pull-request/about-pull-request-merges#squash-and-merge-your-commits) to "squash history" so the merge commit does not contain traces of the sensitive data
   1. [Rewrite any commits on the pull request](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History) to remove any sensitive data from the PR entirely

   Review the [security implications for contributions synced to public forks](#security-implications-for-contributions-synced-to-public-forks) for more information.

3. Once it's merged, the app will automatically sync the private mirror to your public fork, updating a branch whose name matches the name of the private mirror (`silverteam-website`, in this example).

4. You can then use that branch of the public fork as the base to open a PR to the upstream repository.

## Security implications for contributions synced to public forks

> Private Mirrors App is designed to help you manage your open source contributions in a way that addresses stakeholder concerns and conforms to your organization's security and compliance requirements. Contributions using PMA are first made to a private mirror, which is detached from the repository and forks (i.e. the [repository network](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/viewing-activity-and-data-for-your-repository/understanding-connections-between-repositories)) on GitHub. This allows sensitive data or credentials to be caught in a private mirror before any commits are synced back to a public fork. Any sensitive data or credentials should be removed from history before syncing the contribution back to a public fork.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Private Mirrors App is designed to help you manage your open source contributions in a way that addresses stakeholder concerns and conforms to your organization's security and compliance requirements. Contributions using PMA are first made to a private mirror, which is detached from the repository and forks (i.e. the [repository network](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/viewing-activity-and-data-for-your-repository/understanding-connections-between-repositories)) on GitHub. This allows sensitive data or credentials to be caught in a private mirror before any commits are synced back to a public fork. Be sure to remove any sensitive data or credentials  from the commit history before syncing the contribution back to a public fork.
```

> Once a contribution is synced back to a fork, there are security implications to keep in mind.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a contribution is synced back to a fork, keep these security implications in mind.
```

- Commits to a fork are visible to anyone who can access the upstream repository, [even if the fork is deleted](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-permissions-and-visibility-of-forks#important-security-considerations).
- If a private repository is made public, [all commits in the repository and any commits previously pushed to private forks of that repository will become publicly visible](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/what-happens-to-forks-when-a-repository-is-deleted-or-changes-visibility#changing-a-private-repository-to-a-public-repository).

For these reasons, for any commits synced to a public fork that accidentally include sensitive data or credentials, the sensitive data or credentials should be considered compromised. **Deleting the fork or removing the commits from the fork's history will not remove the data from the upstream repository.**

> It is highly recommended to have security procedures prepared and in place in case of any accidental leaks. For example, any credentials that are exposed should be rotated immediately. Consult with your security team to determine the necessary security procedures for your organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend having security procedures prepared and in place in case of any accidental leaks. For example, immediately rotate any cloud API credentials that are exposed. Consult with your security team to determine the necessary security procedures for your organization.
```
